CFA Program Level I for February 2024
1
ANSWER MOCK 1 SESSION 1
1/ Solution
A. Correct because the recommended procedures for compliance with Standard IV (C), Responsibilities
of Supervisors, state that members and candidates are encouraged to recommend that their employers
adopt a code of ethics. In addition, stand-alone codes of ethics should be written in plain language and
should address general fiduciary concepts.
B. Incorrect because the recommended procedures for compliance with Standard IV (C), Responsibilities
of Supervisors, state that members and candidates should encourage their employers to provide their
codes of ethics to clients. In this case also, a simple, straightforward code of ethics will be best
understood by clients. Unencumbered by the compliance procedures, the code of ethics will be effective
in conveying that the firm is committed to conducting business in an ethical manner and in the best
interests of the clients.
C. Incorrect because the recommended procedures for compliance with Standard IV (C), Responsibilities
of Supervisors, is to not combine the code of ethics with a detailed compliance procedures manual. The
Standard states that mingling compliance procedures in the firm's code of ethics goes against the goal of
reinforcing the ethical obligations of employees.
2/ Solution
A. Incorrect because it is a recommended procedure. Among the recommended procedures for Standard
I (B) is to create a restricted list and put companies on that list if the firm is unwilling to permit
dissemination of adverse opinions about that company.
B. Correct because according to Standard I (B), Independence and Objectivity, a recommended
procedure for compliance is to limit gifts, not prohibit gifts.
C. Incorrect because according to the recommended procedures for Standard I (B), firms should appoint
a senior officer with oversight responsibilities for compliance with the firm's code of ethics and all
regulations concerning its business.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• recommend practices and procedures designed to prevent violations of the Code of Ethics and
Standards of Professional Conduct
3/Solution
A. Incorrect because Knowledge of the Law is a sub-section of Standard I-Professionalism.
B. Correct because Performance Presentation is a sub-section of Standard III-Duties to Clients. The other
sub- sections include: Loyalty, Prudence and Care, Fair Dealing, Suitability, and Preservation of
Confidentiality.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
2
C. Incorrect because Independence and Objectivity is a sub-section of Standard I-Professionalism.
Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct
• identify the six components of the Code of Ethics and the seven Standards of Professional Conduct
4/ Solution
A. Incorrect because according to Standard VII(A) relating to Conduct as Participants in CFA Institute
Programs, examples of information that cannot be disclosed by candidates sitting for an exam include
but are not limited to broad topical areas and formulas tested or not tested on the exam. Gupta has
violated Standard VII(A).
B. Correct because according to Standard VII(A) relating to Conduct as Participants in CFA Institute
Programs, examples of information that cannot be disclosed by candidates sitting for an exam include
but are not limited to broad topical areas and formulas tested or not tested on the exam. Gupta has
violated Standard VII(A).
C. Incorrect because Standard VII(A) relating to Conduct as Participants in CFA Institute Programs does
not cover expressing opinions regarding CFA Institute, the CFA Program, or other CFA Institute programs.
Members and candidates are free to disagree and express their disagreement with CFA Institute on its
policies, its procedures, on any advocacy positions taken by the organization.
5/ Solution
A. Incorrect because according to Standard III (A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care, when the manager is
responsible for the portfolios of pension plans or trusts, however, the client is not the person or entity
who hires the manager but, rather, the beneficiaries of the plan or trust. The duty of loyalty is owed to
the ultimate beneficiaries.
B. Incorrect because according to Standard III (A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care, when the manager is
responsible for the portfolios of pension plans or trusts, however, the client is not the person or entity
who hires the manager but, rather, the beneficiaries of the plan or trust. The duty of loyalty is owed to
the ultimate beneficiaries.
C. Correct because according to Standard III (A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care, when the manager is
responsible for the portfolios of pension plans or trusts, however, the client is not the person or entity
who hires the manager but, rather, the beneficiaries of the plan or trust. The duty of loyalty is owed to
the ultimate beneficiaries.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving issues of professional integrity
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
3
6/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Kon violated Standard V (C), Record Retention by re-creating supporting records
from memory.
B. Incorrect because Kon did not violate the Standards by publishing the updated research report since
she obtained the express consent of her former employer. Standard V(C), Record Retention, states that
when a member or candidate leaves a firm to seek other employment, the member or candidate cannot
take the property of the firm, including original forms or copies of supporting records of the member's or
candidate's work, to the new employer without the express consent of the previous employer.
C. Correct because a member must not re-create supporting records from sources obtained at the
previous employer. Standard V(C), Record Retention, states that the member or candidate cannot use
historical recommendations or research reports created at the previous firm because the supporting
documentation is unavailable. For future use, the member or candidate must re-create the supporting
records at the new firm with information gathered through public sources or directly from the covered
company and not from memory or sources obtained at the previous employer.
7/ Solution
A. Incorrect because according to Standard III(B), Fair Dealing, members and candidates must deal fairly
and objectively with all clients when providing investment analysis, making investment
recommendations, taking investment action, or engaging in other professional activities. There is nothing
to suggest that Joshi has not dealt fairly and objectively with her clients. So, there is no violation of
Standard III(B).
B. Correct because Standard III(D). Performance Presentation, requires members and candidates to
provide credible D. performance information to clients and prospective clients and to avoid misstating
performance or misleading clients and prospective clients about the investment performance of
members or candidates or their firms. This standard encourages full disclosure of investment
performance data to clients and prospective clients. By not disclosing that the results related to the
product were simulated Joshi has violated the Standard.
C. Incorrect because according to Standard III(B), Fair Dealing, members and candidates must deal fairly
and objectively with all clients when providing investment analysis, making investment
recommendations, taking investment action, or engaging in other professional activities. There is nothing
to suggest that Joshi has not dealt fairly and objectively with her clients. So, there is no violation of
Standard III(B).
8/ Solution
A. Incorrect because members and candidates must disclose the nature of the consideration or benefit
and consideration includes all fees, whether paid in cash, in soft dollars, or in kind. Therefore, the
member is also required to disclose in kind benefits to the new client.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
4
B. Incorrect because members and candidates must disclose the nature of the consideration or benefit
and consideration includes all fees, whether paid in cash, in soft dollars, or in kind. Therefore, the
member is also required to disclose flat fees to the new client.
C. Correct because members and candidates must disclose the nature of the consideration or benefit-for
example, flat fee. Further, consideration includes all fees, whether paid in cash, in soft dollars, or in kind.
Therefore, the member is required to disclose both flat fees and in kind benefits to the new client.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving issues of professional integrity
9/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Perez has violated Standard III (C), Suitability, as described in the Response
Rationale for the correct answer.
B. Correct because Perez has violated Standard III (C), Suitability, since the committee-selected bond
fund may not be suitable for all of her clients. Standard III (C) states that when members and candidates
are in an advisory relationship with a client, they must:
• Make a reasonable inquiry into a client's or prospective client's investment experience, risk and return
objectives, and financial constraints prior to making any investment recommendation or taking
investment action and must reassess and update this information regularly.
Determine that an investment is suitable to the client's financial situation and consistent with the client's
written objectives, mandates, and constraints before making an investment recommendation or taking
investment action.
• Judge the suitability of investments in the context of the client's total portfolio.
By purchasing the bond fund that she feels is inappropriate for all of her clients, Perez has violated this
Standard.
C. Incorrect because according to Standard V (A), Diligence and Reasonable Basis, Perez is allowed to rely
on others at her firm to determine which managers the firm selects. If members and candidates rely on
secondary or third- party research, they must make reasonable and diligent efforts to determine
whether such research is sound. Secondary research is defined as research conducted by someone else
in the member's or candidate's firm. Additionally, a member or candidate may rely on others in his or
her firm to determine whether secondary or third- party research is sound and use the information in
good faith unless the member or candidate has reason to question its validity or the processes and
procedures used by those responsible for the research. Perez has not violated this Standard by accepting
and acting on the committee decision.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
5
10/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Bermi has violated Standard IV (B), Additional Compensation Arrangements, by
failing to obtain prior approval from her firm for providing advice to her friend.
B. Correct because Standard IV (B), Additional Compensation Arrangements, requires members and
candidates to obtain permission from their employer before accepting compensation or other benefits
from third parties for the services rendered to the employer or for any services that might create a
conflict with their employer's interest. Compensation and benefits include direct compensation by the
client and any indirect compensation or other benefits received from third parties. Bermi has violated
this Standard because the donations to her favorite charity represent a form of compensation for
services provided to her friend. In addition, her services constitute a conflict of interest with her
employer since she provides a service that competes with her firm's service. Therefore, an email
notification to the firm's compliance department will not suffice. Bermi has to obtain prior written
permission from her employer,
C. Incorrect because Bermi has not violated Standard V(B), Communication with Clients and Prospective
Clients, which requires that members and candidates disclose to clients and prospective clients the basic
format and general principals of the investment processes they use to analyze investments, select
securities, and construct portfolios.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving issues of professional integrity
11/ Solution
A. Correct because Standard III(E), Preservation of Confidentiality, requires that members and candidates
preserve the confidentiality of information communicated to them by their clients, prospective clients,
and former clients. Details of former clients cannot be shared with third party service providers and this
is a violation of the Standard.
B. Incorrect because according to Standard III(E), Preservation of Confidentiality, it is important to convey
to clients that not all firm-sponsored resources may be appropriate for communicating confidential
information.
C. Incorrect because according to Standard III(E), Preservation of Confidentiality, when permissible under
applicable law, members and candidates shall consider the PCP an extension of themselves when
requested to provide information about a client in support of a PCP investigation into their own conduct.
This is not a violation of the Standards when permitted by law.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
6
12/ Solution
A. Correct because making full and fair disclosure of all matters that could reasonably be expected to
impair one's independence and objectivity or interfere with respective duties to one's clients is required
by Standard VI(A), Disclosure of Conflicts.
B. Incorrect because written permission from both parties would be needed to provide full and fair
disclosure of all matters that could reasonably be expected to impair their independence and objectivity
or interfere with respective duties to their clients. The requirement to disclose under Standard VI A),
Disclosure of Conflicts, does not mandate that this be in writing. In fact, members and candidates have
the responsibility of determining how often, in what manner, and in what particular circumstances the
disclosure must be made.
C. Incorrect because the signing of confidentiality agreements does not necessarily provide full and fair
disclosure of all matters that could reasonably be expected to impair Badawi's independence and
objectivity or interfere with respective duties to his clients as required by Standard VI(A), Disclosure of
Conflicts.
13/ Solution
A. Incorrect because published stock exchange data is considered valid data. There is no evidence the
stock exchange is an unreliable source of accurate data. Therefore, as per Standard V(A) Diligence and
Reasonable Basis, it is not necessary to consider the validity of the stock exchange trading volumes
reported and Kertz can use the data in "good faith".
B. Correct because according to Standard V(A) Diligence and Reasonable Basis, if members rely on
secondary or third-party research, they must make reasonable and diligent efforts to determine whether
such research is sound. Criteria that a member can use in forming an opinion on whether research is
sound includes an evaluation of the objectivity and independence of the recommendations.
C. Incorrect because according to Standard V(A) Diligence and Reasonable Basis, research
recommendations reflect the consensus of the group and are not necessarily the views of the member,
even through the name of the member is included on the report. If the member is confident in the
process, the member does not need to
14/ Solution
A. Incorrect because if the staff under discussion for possible termination are in low-level positions, the
information is unlikely to be considered material.
B. Incorrect because the absence of specific names being mentioned does not necessarily make the
information non- material when disclosed to clients prior to any public dissemination.
C. Correct because in order to comply with the Code and Standards, a member or candidate cannot use
material nonpublic information when making investment recommendations. The information overheard
would be considered material only if any public announcement of the staff removal would be likely to
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
7
move the share price of the bank. In this case, the discussed changes are unlikely to affect investor
perception of the bank, so Msafari could use the information when making an investment
recommendation.
15/ Solution
A. Incorrect because according to the recommendations for Standard III (B), Fair Dealing, when allocating
trades for new issues, procedures should include obtaining advance indications of interest, allocating
securities by client (rather than portfolio manager), and providing a method for calculating allocations.
B. Correct because according to the recommendations for Standard III (B), Fair Dealing, procedures
should include processing and executing orders on a first-in, first-out basis with consideration of bundling
orders for efficiency as appropriate for the asset class or the security.
C. Incorrect because according to the recommendations for Standard III (B), Fair Dealing, procedures
should include giving all client accounts participating in a block trade the same execution price and
charging the same commission.
So, the price should be the same, not based on order arrival time.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• recommend practices and procedures designed to prevent violations of the Code of Ethics and
Standards of Professional Conduct
16/ Solution
A. Correct because according to Standard I (A), Knowledge of the Law, if a member or candidate has
reasonable grounds to believe that imminent or ongoing client or employer activities are illegal or
unethical, the member or candidate must dissociate, or separate, from the activity.
B. Incorrect because according to Standard I (A), Knowledge of the Law, while members and candidates
must understand the applicable laws and regulations of the countries and jurisdictions where they
engage in professional activities they are not required to have detailed knowledge of or be experts on all
the laws that could potentially govern their activities.
C. Incorrect because even though Standard I (A), Knowledge of the Law, states that CFA Institute strongly
encourages members and candidates to report potential violations of the Code and Standards
committed by fellow members and candidates, the Standard does not make this a requirement.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving issues of professional integrity
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
8
17/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Standard I(C), Misrepresentation, prohibits members and candidates from making
any statements that promise or guarantee a specific rate of return on volatile investments. Because the
equity-based investment is inherently volatile, and the future return is unpredictable, Prakash's promises
about future returns making up for the penalty of withdrawing the funds violates Standard I(C). Trust is
the foundation of the investment profession. Investment professionals who make false or misleading
statements not only harm investors but also reduce the level of investor confidence in the investment
profession and threaten the integrity of the capital markets. Therefore, Prakash has violated Standard
I(C).
Further, according to Standard III(A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care prudence requires caution and
discretion. The exercise of prudence by investment professionals requires that they act with the care,
skill, and diligence that a reasonable person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use. Acting with care requires members and candidates to act in a prudent and judicious manner in
avoiding harm to clients. Prakash causes harm to her client by recommending that the client transfer
money from a tax-deferred account to TXM's large-cap fund, a process that will cost the client $15,000 in
penalties. Therefore, Prakash also violated Standard III(C).
B. Incorrect because Standard III(A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care prudence requires caution and
discretion. The exercise of prudence by investment professionals requires that they act with the care,
skill, and diligence that a reasonable person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use. Acting with care requires members and candidates to act in a prudent and judicious manner in
avoiding harm to clients. Prakash causes harm to her client by recommending that the client transfer
money from a tax-deferred account to TXM's large-cap fund, a process that will cost the client $15,000 in
penalties. Therefore, Prakash also violated Standard III(C).
C. Correct because Standard I(C), Misrepresentation, prohibits members and candidates from making
any statements that promise or guarantee a specific rate of return on volatile investments. Because the
equity-based investment is inherently volatile, and the future return is unpredictable, Prakash's promises
about future returns making up for the penalty of withdrawing the funds violates Standard I(C). Trust is
the foundation of the investment profession. Investment professionals who make false or misleading
statements not only harm investors but also reduce the level of investor confidence in the investment
profession and threaten the integrity of the capital markets. Therefore, Prakash has violated Standard
I(C).
Further, according to Standard III(A), Loyalty, Prudence, and Care prudence requires caution and
discretion. The exercise of prudence by investment professionals requires that they act with the care,
skill, and diligence that a reasonable person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use. Acting with care requires members and candidates to act in a prudent and judicious manner in
avoiding harm to clients. Prakash causes harm to her client by recommending that the client transfer
money from a tax-deferred account to TXM's large-cap fund, a process that will cost the client $15,000 in
penalties. Therefore, Prakash also violated Standard III(C).
Ethics Application
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
9
• explain how the practices, policies, and conduct do or do not violate the CFA Institute Code of Ethics
and Standards of Professional Conduct
18/ Solution
A. Incorrect because it is not a violation to not pay fees if the person does not claim to be a CFA
charterholder or a member of the CFA Institute.
B. Correct because according to Standard VII(B), Reference to CFA Institute, the CFA Designation, and the
CFA Program, it is a violation to claim that the CFA charter helped her to achieve superior returns.
C. Incorrect because it is appropriate to claim that being a charterholder has improved her portfolio
management skills.
19/ Solution
A. Correct because according to Standard V(B), Communication with Clients and Prospective Clients,
members must distinguish between fact and opinion in the presentation of investment analyses and
recommendations.
B. Incorrect because according to Standard V(B), Communication with Clients and Prospective Clients,
members must promptly disclose any material, not nonmaterial, changes affecting the investment
process. Disclose to clients and prospective clients the basic format and general principles of the
investment processes they use to analyze investments, select securities, and construct portfolios and
must promptly disclose any changes that might materially affect those processes.
C. Incorrect because according to Standard V(B), Communication with Clients and Prospective Clients,
members must promptly disclose any material, not nonmaterial, changes affecting the investment
process. Disclose to clients and prospective clients the basic format and general principles of the
investment processes they use to analyze investments, select securities, and construct portfolios and
must promptly disclose any changes that might materially affect those processes.
20/ Solution
A. Correct because transaction-based manipulation involves instances where a member or candidate
knew or should have known that his or her actions could affect the pricing of a security. This type of
manipulation includes, but is not limited to, the following: securing a controlling, dominant position in a
financial instrument to exploit and manipulate the price of a related derivative and/or the underlying
asset.
B. Incorrect because Standard II (B) is not intended to preclude transactions undertaken on legitimate
trading strategies based on perceived market inefficiencies. Therefore, taking investment positions -
even aggressive ones - with an intent to exploit market inefficiencies does not represent market
manipulation.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
10
C. Incorrect because information-based manipulation includes, but is not limited to, spreading false
rumors to induce trading by others. For example, members and candidates must refrain from "pumping
up" the price of an investment by issuing misleading positive information or overty optimistic projections
of a security's worth. Therefore, overly optimistic projections that induce trading by other market
participants forms part of information-based, and not transaction-based manipulation.
21/ Solution
A. Incorrect because according to the GIPS standards, once a firm claims compliance with the standards,
they may voluntarily hire an independent third party to perform a verification in order to increase
confidence in the firm's claim of compliance. Therefore, Statement 1 is incorrect.
B. Incorrect because according to the GIPS standards verification is performed with respect to an entire
firm, not on specific composites. Verification does not ensure the accuracy of any specific composite
presentation. Therefore, Statement 2 is incorrect.
C. Correct because according to the GIPS standards, verification is performed with respect to an entire
firm, not on specific composites. Therefore, Statement 3 is correct.
Introduction to the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)
• describe the concept of independent verification
22/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the causality is reversed, strategy determines discretion for portfolios, not vice
versa The firm's definition of discretion establishes criteria to judge which portfolios must be included in
a composite and is based on the firm's ability to implement its investment strategies.
B. Correct because the firm's definition of discretion establishes criteria to judge which portfolios must
be included in a composite and is based on the firm's ability to implement its investment strategies.
C. Incorrect because firms may not choose portfolios to include in a composite based on performance:
the requirement to create, use and maintain composites is designed to prevent firms from cherry-picking
using the best-performing accounts to represent the performance of an investment strategy.
Introduction to the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)
• describe the fundamentals of compliance, including the recommendations of the GIPS standards with
respect to the definition of the firm and the firm's definition of discretion
23/ Solution
A. Incorrect because by not detailing the commission structure to her clients, Yip does not disclose the
potential reason for her favoring front-end load funds over back-end load as the commission is higher
and is paid immediately, rather than at the end of the year.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
11
B. Incorrect because Yip does not disclose the commission structure in detail, which could impair her
independence when recommending front-load mutual funds rather than back-end load mutual funds to
her clients.
C. Correct because Yip's investments do not adversely affect the interest of the clients and therefore do
not violate the Priority of Transactions requirement. A candidate having the same investment positions
does not always create a conflict of interest, and in some instances having an aligned investment
portfolio can be beneficial to the client. By not detailing the commission structure to her clients, Yip does
not disclose the potential reason for her favoring front-end load funds over back-end load as the
commission is higher and is paid immediately rather than at the end
24/ Solution
A. Incorrect because institutional accounts may be included in a composite with retail accounts if they
have a similar investment mandate, objective, or strategy.
B. Correct because a composite must include all actual, fee-paying, discretionary segregated accounts
managed in accordance with the same investment mandate, objective, or strategy
C. Incorrect because non-fee-paying accounts are not required to be in a GIPS-compliant composite.
Introduction to the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS)
describe the key concepts of the GIPS Standards for Firms
25/ Solution
A. Correct because Standard I (D), Misconduct, addresses all conduct that reflects poorly on the
professional integrity, good reputation, or competence of members and candidates.
B. Incorrect because Standard I (D), Misconduct, is primarily aimed at conduct and actions related to a
member's or candidate's professional life.
C. Incorrect because Standard I (D) addresses all conduct that reflects poorly on the professional
integrity, good reputation, or competence of members and candidates; the Standard doesn't address all
actions in members' private lives.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• demonstrate the application of the Code of Ethics and Standards of Professional Conduct to situations
involving
26/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the member did not contact clients using information from her previous employer
so she did not violate Standard IV(A)-Loyalty by these actions. Contacting former clients for any reason
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
12
through the use of client lists or other information taken from a prior employer without permission
would be a violation of the standard because client records are the property of the firm.
B. Incorrect because West Star does not have any non-compete agreements so the analyst is free to seek
employment elsewhere.
C. Correct because the portfolio manager violated Standard IV(A)-Loyalty by taking proprietary trading
software from her former employer. Although the manager created the software, it was during a period
of time when Wast Star employed her, so the software is not her property to take with her to her new
employer. The member contacted clients using public information, so she did not violate Standard IV(A)-
Loyalty. Because Viggen was not obligated to abide by a non-compete agreement that would likely
restrict recruitment of former colleagues, Viggen is most likely free to recruit the analyst from his former
employer.
Guidance for Standards I-VII
• recommend practices and procedures designed to prevent violations of the Code of Ethics and
Standards of Professional Conduct
27/ Solution
A. Correct because a firm has only two options with regard to compliance with the GIPS standards: fully
comply with all requirements of the GIPS standards and claim compliance through the use of the GIPS
Compliance Statement; or not comply with all requirements or the GIPS standards and not claim
compliance with, or make any reference to, the GIPS standards.
B. Incorrect because the firm is referencing the GIPS standards improperly by making a statement of its
intention to be in GIPS compliance by a future date. A firm has only two options with regard to
compliance with the GIPS standards: fully comply with all requirements of the GIPS standards and claim
compliance through the use of the GIPS Compliance Statement; or not comply with all requirements or
the GIPS standards and not claim compliance with, or make any reference to, the GIPS standards.
C. Incorrect because a firm is not allowed to claim partial compliance. A firm has only two options with
regard to compliance with the GIPS standards: fully comply with all requirements of the GIPS standards
and claim compliance through the use of the GIPS Compliance Statement; or not comply with all
requirements or the GIPS standards and not claim compliance with, or make any reference to, the GIPS
standards.
28/ Solution
A. Incorrect because autarky describes countries seeking political self-sufficiency with little or no
external trade or finance.
B. Correct because hegemonic countries tend to be regional or even global leaders, and they use their
political or economic influence of others to control resources.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
13
C. Incorrect because multilateralism describes countries that participate in mutually beneficial trade
relationships and extensive rules harmonization.
Introduction to Geopolitics
• describe geopolitics from a cooperation versus competition perspective
29/ Solution
A. Incorrect because id subtracts Preferred dividends in the numerator of the Diluted EPS formula If the
convertible shares had been converted, there would be two effects. First, the convertible preferred
securities would no longer be outstanding, instead, additional common stock would be outstanding,
second, if such a conversion had taken place, the company would not have paid preferred dividends. The
calculation becomes Diluted EPS= (Net income - Preferred dividends) (Weighted average number of
shares outstanding + New common shares that would have been issued at conversion), or ($1,800,000-
$600,000)/[200,000+ (50,000 x 4)] = $1,200,000/400,000=$3.00
B. Correct because the effect of using if-converted method would be a reported diluted EPS of $4.50. The
if-converted method is based on what EPS would have been if the convertible preferred securities had
been converted at the beginning of the period. If the convertible shares had been converted, there
would be two effects. First, the convertible preferred securities would no longer be outstanding; instead,
additional common stock would be outstanding. Thus, under the if-converted method, the weighted
average number of shares outstanding would be higher than in the basic EPS calculation. Second, if such
a conversion had taken place, the company would not have paid preferred dividends. Diluted EPS using
the if-converted method for preferred stock is Net income/ (Weighted average number of shares
outstanding + New common snares that would have been issued at conversion); or =
$1,800,000/(200,000+ (50,000×4)] = $1,800,000/400,000 $450 Basic EPS= (Net income- Preferred
dividends) / Weighted average number of shares outstanding = ($1,800 000-$600,000)/200,000 = $600
As Basic EPS of $6.00 is higher than diluted EPS of $450 the convertible preferred stock is dilutive (rather
than antidilutive, and the diluted EPS of $4.50 should thus be reported.
C. Incorrect because it calculates Basic EPS = (Net income - Preferred dividends) / Weighted average
number of shares outstanding = ($1,800,000-$600,000)/200,000 = $6.00.
30/Solution
A. Incorrect because while normalized earnings may be estimated in certain cases as the historical
average, in others instances the best fit regression model is used Also the definition should adjust for
unusual or temporary factors: normalized earnings are the expected level of mid-cycle eamings for a
company in the absence of any unusual or temporary factors that affect profitability (either positively or
negatively).
B. Incorrect because if an analyst is creating a valuation model such as a DCF model, estimating a
terminal value is required to capture the going-concern value of the company after the explicit forecast
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
14
period. Also, normalized earnings are the expected level of mic-cycle earnings for a company in the
absence of any unusual or temporary factors that affect profitability (either positively or negatively).
C. Correct because normalized earnings are the expected level of mid-cycle earnings for a company in
the absence of any unusual or temporary factors that affect profitability (either positively or negatively).
Introduction to Financial Statement Modeling
• explain considerations in the choice of an explicit forecast horizon and an analyst's choices in
developing projections beyond the short-term forecast horizon
31/ Solution
A. Incorrect because market participants would then come to the view that higher interest rates will lead
to slower economic growth, reduced profits, and reduced borrowing to finance asset purchases. The fall
in asset prices as well as an increase in prices would reduce household financial wealth and therefore
lead to a reduction in consumption growth.
B. Incorrect because a rise in the central bank's policy rate is likely weaken investors' confidence. Market
participants would then come to the view that higher interest rates will lead to slower economic growth,
reduced profits, and reduced borrowing to finance asset purchases.
C. Correct because there is a whole range of interconnected ways in which a rise in the central bank's
policy rate can reduce real domestic demand and net external demand (that is, the difference between
export and import consumption). Weaker total demand would tend to put downward pressure on the
rate of domestic inflation-as would a stronger currency, which would reduce the prices of imports. Taken
together, these might begin to put downward pressure on the overall measure of inflation.
32/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the amount of the impairment charge due to goodwill is less than that of licenses.
The goodwill impairment charge for 20X2 in dollars 73,194-(65,321 +7.324) = 549.
B. Correct because licenses will have the largest dollar impairment charge on the income statement due
to the size of the implied impairment charge, which is calculated as: Accumulated impairment losses and
amortization as of 31 December Year 1- (Accumulated impairment losses and amortization as of 31
December Year 1+ Exchange movements + Amortization charge for year + Net Additions (Disposals)). In
this case the largest impairment loss that will be reported is due to licenses, Impairment charge due to
licenses 10,856-(8,243+821+1.244-25)=573.
C. Incorrect because the amount of the impairment charge due to computer software is less than that of
licenses. The computer software impairment charge for 20X2 in dollars 8,214-(5,257+ 334+2,102) = 521
Analysis of Long-Term Assets
• analyze and interpret financial statement disclosures regarding property, plant, and equipment and
intangible assets
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
15
33/ Solution
A. Correct because leverage is a component of the return on equity equation under the DuPont Analysis.
If leverage decreases, so will return on equity.
ROE = Tax burden Interest burden Earnings before interest and taxes margin x Total asset turnover x
Leverage
B. Incorrect because the tax burden is one of the components of ROE in the 5-factor model:
Tax burden = Net income/EBT = (EBT-Tax)/EBT1-Tax/EBT1-Effective tax rate
A lower tax rate means the company keeps more of its pre-tax profits (and has a higher tax burden). A
lower tax rate increases net income and increases ROE: an increase in any of the 5 components increases
ROE
C. Incorrect because days of sales outstanding is a component of the asset turnover measure. All else
equal, if days of sales outstanding decreased, total asset turnover would increase. If asset turnover
increases, so will return on equity.
Financial Analysis Techniques
• demonstrate the application of DuPont analysis of return on equity and calculate and interpret effects
of changes in its components
34/ Solution
A. Incorrect because this is the change of NPM when RDR decreases by 7%. The change of NPM is equal
to slope coefficient times change in RDR. When RDR decreases by 7%, the change of NPM is equal to -
0.6x(-7%) = 4.20%.
B. Correct because the predicted value of NPM when the forecasted RDR is 7% is equal to 17.38%-
0.6x7% = 13.18%.
C. Incorrect because it mistakenly uses 0.6 instead of -0.6 for the slope coefficient in the calculation.
When -0.6 is used, the predicted value of NPM when the forecasted RDR is 7% is equal to 17.38%+
0.6x7% = 21.58%.
Simple Linear Regression
• calculate and interpret the predicted value for the dependent variable, and a prediction interval for it,
given an estimated linear regression model and a value for the independent variable
35/ Solution
A. Correct because if interest can be deducted the tax deductibility of debt reduces the effective
marginal cost of debt.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
16
B. Incorrect because if interest can be deducted the tax deductibility of debt reduces the effective
marginal cost of debt.
C. Incorrect because if interest can be deducted the tax deductibility of debt reduces the effective
marginal cost of debt.
Capital Structure
• calculate and interpret the weighted-average cost of capital for a company
36/ Solution
A. Correct because the firm's supply curve should measure the quantity the firm is willing to supply at
various prices. Also, the market supply curve is the sum of the supply curves of the individual firms.
B. Incorrect because the effects of the actions of the buyers on price and quantity are described by the
demand curve, not the supply curve: The demand curve shows the highest price consumers would be
willing to pay for each additional unit. In effect, the demand curve is the willingness of consumers to pay
for each additional unit.
C. Incorrect because the supply curve shows the lowest price (not the highest price) sellers are willing to
accept for each quantity.
The Firm and Market Structures
• explain supply and demand relationships under monopolistic competition, including the optimal price
and output for firms as well as pricing strategy
37/ Solution
A. Correct because all else equal, recognizing expenses later rather than sooner is considered to be less
conservative in reporting net income.
B. Incorrect because reflecting fewer warranty claims as a percentage of sales could be due to improved
product quality and a change in business operations, not to an aggressive calculation of reported net
income.
C. Incorrect because estimating lower uncollectible accounts due to stricter credit policies would reflect
a change in business operations and not indicate a more aggressive accounting approach.
Analyzing Income Statements
• describe general principles of expense recognition, specific expense recognition applications,
implications of expense recognition choices for financial analysis and contrast costs that are capitalized
versus those that are expensed in the period in which they are incurred
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
17
38/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the Current ratio would decrease instead of increase as a result of an inventory
write-down. Current ratio = Current assets / Current liabilities and inventory is classified as Current
assets. Among the current assets required line items are cash and cash equivalents, trade and other
receivables, inventories, and financial assets (with short maturities). Current assets would decrease
while Current liabilities would remain unchanged, and the Current ratio will therefore decrease as a
result of an inventory write-down.
B. Correct because an inventory write-down reduces both profit and the carrying amount of inventory on
the balance sheet and thus has a negative effect on profitability, liquidity, and solvency ratios. However,
activity ratios (for example, inventory turnover and total asset turnover) will be positively affected by a
write-down because the asset base (denominator) is reduced. Total asset turnover = Revenue/Average
total assets. Inventory carrying amount decreases as a result of the write-down. Thus the denominator,
Average total assets decreases while the numerator, Revenue remains unchanged. Total asset turnover
ratio will therefore increase as a result of an inventory write-down.
C. Incorrect because the Receivables turnover ratio would remain unchanged instead of increase as a
result of an inventory write-down. Receivables turnover ratio = Revenue/Average receivables. Neither
Revenue nor Average receivables are impacted and the Receivables turnover ratio will therefore remain
unchanged as a result of an inventory write-down.
39/ Solution
A. Incorrect because a sunk cost is one that has already been incurred whereas the cost of the option
will only be incurred if management proceeds with the project which has the real option.
B. Correct because there are several approaches a company's management may use in evaluating capital
investments with real options and one approach is to consider the Project NPV = NPV (based on DCF
(discounted cash flow] alone) - Cost of options Value of options. Calculate the NPV based on expected
cash flows. Then simply add the value associated with real options less their incremental cost D
C. Incorrect because if the value of the real option less the incremental cost is positive and exceeds the
project NPV on an absolute basis, the project should be undertaken. There are several approaches a
company's management may use in evaluating capital investments with real options and one approach is
to consider the Project NPV = NPV (based on DCF [discounted cash flow] alone) -Cost of options + Value
of options. Calculate the NPV based on expected cash flows. Then simply add the value associated with
real options less their incremental cost. On the other hand, if the NPV is positive without considering
real options and the project has real options that would simply add more value, it is unnecessary to
evaluate the options. Management should simply undertake the investment.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
18
40/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the residual for the ith observation, e, is how much the observed value of Y, differs
from the Y estimated using the regression line.
B. Incorrect because the residual for the ith observation, e, is how much the observed value of Y differs
from the Y estimated using the regression line.
C. Correct because the residual for the ith observation, e, is how much the observed value of Y, differs
from the Y estimated using the regression line.
Simple Linear Regression
• describe a simple linear regression model, how the least squares criterion is used to estimate
regression coefficients, and the interpretation of these coefficients
41/ Solution
A. Correct because the internal rate of return (IRR) is the discount rate that makes the net present value
(NPV) equal to zero. As the NPV of Project 1 is $0, the discount rate must be equal to its IRR. The IRR of
Project 1 is the solution to the equation: 0=-$1,000+ $400/(1+IRR)1+ $400/(1+IRR)2+ $400/(1+IRR)3
where IRR= 9.7%. Calculator solution: CF₁ = -1,000: CF, 400; CF2 = 400; CF3 = 400; solve for IRR= 9.7%.
Next, use this discount rate to calculate the NPV of Project 2: NVP =-$1.300+ $500/(1+0.097)1+ $500/
(1+0.097)2 + 5500/ (1+0.097)3= -$50. Calculator solution: CF0 =-1,300; CF1= 500; CF2 =500; CF3=500; I =
9.7; solve for NPV = -50. The question can also be solved intuitively by recognizing 1) that the discount
rate for Project 1 has to be positive and 2) that Project 2 has a greater initial investment ($1,300) for the
same net cash flow ($200) as Project 1, whose NPV is $0. Taken together, this has to result in a negative
NPV for Project 2.
B. Incorrect because, although the NPV of Project 1 is $0, the NPV of Project 2 is -$50. A candidate may
assume the NPV of both projects is $0 because the analyst uses the same discount rate for both projects
or because the projects have the same net cash flow ($200).
C. Incorrect because the NPV of Project 2 is negative, not positive. A candidate may choose this answer
because the future cash flows are greater for Project 2 or because the net cash flow ($200) is positive.
42/ Solution
A. Incorrect because increasing computing power can speed up the machine learning (ML) algorithm
only. The same overfitting issue will still occur if the same ML model is used.
B. Correct because overfitting occurs when the ML [machine learning) model learns the input and target
dataset too precisely. An M model that has been overfitted is not able to accurately predict outcomes
using a different dataset and may be too complex. When a model has been underfitted, the ML model
treats true parameters as if they are noise and is not able to recognize relationships within the training
data. In such cases, the model may be too simplistic. Hence, using a less complex ML model may
alleviate the issue.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
19
C. Incorrect because unsupervised learning is one of the classes of machine learning techniques. In
unsupervised learning, computers are not given labeled data but instead are given only data from which
the algorithm seeks to describe the data and their structure. The stem does not indicate whether a
supervised or unsupervised model is being used.
Introduction to Big Data Techniques
• describe Big Data, artificial intelligence, and machine learning
43/ Solution
A. Incorrect because it would result in a lower net profit margin since net income would drop as a result
of higher depreciation expense and revenue would remain unchanged. Net profit margin = Net income /
Revenue. Asset revaluations that increase the carrying amount of an asset initially increase depreciation
expense, total assets, and shareholders' equity upward asset revaluations also generally decrease
income (through higher depreciation expense).
B. Correct because an increase in the carrying amount of depreciable long-lived assets increases total
assets and shareholders equity, so asset revaluations that increase the carrying amount of an asset can
be used to reduce reported leverage. Defining leverage as average total assets divided by average
shareholders' equity, increasing both the numerator (assets) and denominator (equity) by the same
amount leads to a decline in the ratio. (Mathematically, when a ratio is greater than one, as in this case,
an increase in both the numerator and the denominator by the same amount leads to a decline in the
ratio).
C. Incorrect because an increase in the asset carrying value results in a lower total asset turnover ratio.
Total asset turnover ratio Revenue/Average total assets. While revenue would remain unchanged,
average total assets would increase therefore the total asset turnover ratio would decrease. Asset
revaluations that increase the carrying value of asset would result in a decrease in asset turnover ratio
because the numerator (Revenue) remains the same while the denominator (Average total assets)
increases.
44/ Solution
A. Incorrect because automatic stabilizers are indeed automatic, not requiring the identification of
shocks to which policy makers must consider a response. They should be distinguished from
discretionary fiscal policies, such as changes in government spending or tax rates, which are actively
used to stabilize aggregate demand. Changing tax rates is a discretionary policy action.
B. Incorrect because automatic stabilizers are indeed automatic, not requiring the identification of
shocks to which policy makers must consider a response. They should be distinguished from
discretionary fiscal policies, such as changes in government spending or tax rates, which are actively
used to stabilize aggregate demand. Spending on infrastructure is a discretionary policy action:
C. Correct because automatic stabilizers are indeed automatic, not requiring the identification of shocks
to which policy makers must consider a response. They should be distinguished from discretionary fiscal
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
20
policies, such as changes in government spending or tax rates, which are actively used to stabilize
aggregate demand. Unemployment benefits satisfies the definition of automatic stabilizer. For example,
as an economy slows and unemployment rises, government spending on unemployment benefits will
also rise and add to aggregate demand. This is known as an automatic stabilizer.
45/ Solution
A. Incorrect because both monetary and fiscal policies are used to regulate economic activity over time.
B. Incorrect because both monetary and fiscal policies are used to regulate economic activity over time.
C. Correct because both monetary and fiscal policies are used to regulate economic activity over time.
Fiscal Policy
• compare monetary and fiscal policy
46/ Solution
A. Correct because net profit margin is calculated by dividing net income by revenue. The amount of the
impairment loss will reduce the carrying amount of the asset on the balance sheet and will reduce net
income on the income statement. Thus, the impairment loss will reduce net income but will have no
effect on revenue, resulting in a reduction of net profit margin.
B. Incorrect because total asset turnover is calculated by dividing revenue by average total assets. The
amount of the impairment loss will reduce the carrying amount of the asset on the balance sheet and
will reduce net income on the income statement. Thus, the impairment loss will have no effect on
revenue but will reduce total assets, resulting in an increase in total asset turnover.
C. Incorrect because working capital turnover is calculated by dividing revenue by average working
capital. Working capital is defined as current assets minus current liabilities. The amount of the
impairment loss will reduce the carrying amount of the asset on the balance sheet and will reduce net
income on the income statement. Thus, the impairment loss although reduces total assets, does not
affect current assets or revenue and therefore does not affect the working capital turnover ratio.
47/ Solution
A. Incorrect because an adverse audit opinion is issued when an auditor determines that the financial
statements materially depart from accounting standards and are not fairly presented.
B. Correct because a qualified audit opinion is one in which there is some scope limitation or exception
to accounting standards.
C. Incorrect because a disclaimer of opinion occurs when, for some reason, such as a scope limitation,
the auditors are unable to issue an opinion.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
21
Introduction to Financial Statement Analysis
• describe the importance of regulatory filings, financial statement notes and supplementary
information, management's commentary, and audit reports
48/ Solution
A. Correct. The gross profit is sales minus cost of sales and the gross profit margin is calculated as gross
profit divided by sales. The calculations for the three companies are as follows:
Company A: Gross profit = $40,000-$21,000 = $19,000 and the gross profit margin is 47.5%
($19,000/$40,000). Of the three companies, this gross profit margin is the highest.
Company B: Gross profit = $200,000-$110,000=$90,000 and the gross profit margin is 45.0%
($90,000/$200,000).
Company C: Gross profit = $450,000-$240,000 = $210,000 and the gross profit margin is 46.7%
($210,000/$450,000).
B. Incorrect because Company B: Gross profit = $200,000-$110,000 = $90,000 and the gross profit
margin is 45.0% ($90,000/$200,000).
C. Incorrect because Company C: Gross profit = $450,000 $240,000 = $210,000 and the gross profit
margin is 46.7% ($210,000/$450,000).
49/ Solution
A. Incorrect because corporations can borrow (issue debt) and the debt must be repaid on a prespecified date in the future with interest. However, the directors primarily act in the best interest of
shareholders.
B. Incorrect because directors (the board) appoint the managers (key executives) and managers have the
primary responsibility to act in the best interest of shareholders.
C. Correct because directors and managers have a primary responsibility to act in the best interest of
shareholders and, indirectly, all stakeholders. Further, if a board or management does not act in
shareholders' best interests, shareholders can enact change through exercising voting rights attached to
their shares for example, by voting to replace the board of directors.
Organizational Forms, Corporate Issuer Features, and Ownership
• describe key features of corporate issuers
50/ Solution
A. Incorrect because debt is a negligible component of the capital structures of most start-up companies.
B. Incorrect because many growth companies use debt conservatively in order to preserve operational
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
22
and financial flexibility and minimize the risk of financial distress. Equity remains the predominant source
of capital
C. Correct because at the maturity stage, the company becomes able to support low-cost debt, often on
an unsecured basis. From the company's perspective, debt financing is likely to be more attractive than
higer-cost equity financing.
Capital Structure
 explain factors affecting capital structure and the weighted-average cost of capital
51/ Solution
A. Correct because real exchange rates reflect changes in relative purchasing power.
B. Incorrect because it is important to note that real exchange rates are not quoted or traded in global FX
markets.
C. Incorrect because real exchange rates have a poor track record as a predictor of future nominal
exchange rate movements.
The Foreign Exchange Market and Capital Flows
• describe the foreign exchange market, including its functions and participants, distinguish between
nominal and real exchange rates, and calculate and interpret the percentage change in a currency
relative to another currency
52/ Solution
A. Incorrect because this applies to the franchisor not the franchisee. Under franchise models the
franchisor earns a royalty on the franchisee's sales. The franchisor is responsible for product
development and advertising, for which it often collects an additional fee from franchisees.
B. Incorrect because this applies to the franchisor not the franchisee. Under franchise models the
franchisor earns a royalty on the franchisee's sales. The franchisor is responsible for product
development and advertising, for which it often collects an additional fee from franchisees.
C. Correct because under franchise models franchisees have a tightly defined and exclusive relationship
with a franchisor to operate under a specific brand with proprietary products and processes.
Business Models
• describe various types of business models
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
23
53/ Solution
A. Incorrect because a bargain purchase results when the purchase of a company involves the purchase
of net identifiable assets with a value greater than the cost to purchase. In these instances, no goodwill
is created and any gain from the purchase is recognized as profit in the period during which it was
earned.
B. Correct because accounting goodwill arising from an acquisition is the excess of the cost to purchase a
target company over the acquired net identifiable assets (fair value of identifiable assets minus fair value
of the fiabilities and contingent liabilities).
C. Incorrect because when the purchase price for a company can be attributed solely to separately
identifiable assets and liabilities, there is no goodwill.
Analyzing Balance Sheets
• explain the financial reporting and disclosures related to goodwill
54/ Solution
A. Incorrect because this response applies the formula incorrectly and assumes the continuously
compounded return is equal to: r = In(S₁)/In(S)-1 = In($38)/In($30)-1=1.0695-16.95% ~ 7.0%.
B. Correct because the continuously compounded return from t to t+1 is rt,t+1= In(St+1/St) = In(1+Rt,t+1)
Therefore, the continuous compounded return from 1 January to 15 January is r1,20= In(S20/S1)=
In($38/$30)= 23.64%~ 23.6%.
C. Incorrect because this response calculates the holding period return from 1 January to 15 January.
That is, St+1/St, = 1+Rt+1,t Therefore, Rt,t+1=St+1/St - 1= 26.67%~26.7%.
Rates and Returns
• calculate and interpret annualized return measures and continuously compounded returns, and
describe their appropriate uses
55/ Solution
A. Incorrect because a positive move in a lagging indicator is most likely identifying an upturn in
economic activity that occurred in the past.
B. Correct because a positive movement in a lagging indicator would most likely be used to confirm that
an existing expansion is underway or has already occurred. Only a leading indicator would help identify
or predict a future economic event.
C. Incorrect because a positive move in a lagging indicator by itself is insufficient to indicate a positive
expansion. However, confirmation would be required from positive changes in a coincident indicator to
indicate expansion.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
24
Understanding Business Cycles
•describe how resource use, consumer and business activity housing sector activity, and external trade
sector activity vary over the business cycle and describe their measurement using economic indicators
56/ Solution
A. Correct because the money-weighted return and its calculation are similar to the internal rate of
return and the yield to maturity. Just like the internal rate of return, amounts invested are cash outflows
from the investor's perspective and amounts returned or withdrawn by the investor, or the money that
remains at the end of an investment cycle, is a cash inflow for the investor. The value of the fund at the
end of Year 2 is 50(1.17)(1.12) + 125(1.12) = 205.52. Το find the IRR -- the money-weighted return --
using a calculator: CF0=-50; CF1=-125: CF2=+205.52; compute IRR = 13.1785% ~ 13.2%.
B. Incorrect because it is the time-weighted rate of return, which is calculated as the geometric mean of
the two annual returns: r= [(1+r₁)(1+r2)]1/2
-1= [(1.17)(1.12)]1/2
-1=0.1447 ~ 14.5%. The rounded answer is
also the arithmetic mean of the two annual returns; (0.17 +0.12)/2=0.145 = 14.5%.
C. Incorrect because it calculates the compound rate of return and divides it by 2: r = [(1+r1)(1+r2)-1]/2 =
[(1.17) (1.12)-1)/2=0.1552 ~ 15.5%.
57/ Solution
A. Correct because while central banks are usually responsible for the operation of a country's monetary
policy," they are not responsible for setting or implementing fiscal policy. Monetary policy refers to
central bank activities that are directed toward influencing the quantity of money and credit in an
economy. By contrast, fiscal policy refers to the government's decisions about taxation and spending.
B. Incorrect because perhaps the least appreciated role of a central bank is its role in the payments
system. Central banks are usually asked to oversee, regulate, and set standards for a country's payments
system.
C. Incorrect because most central banks will also be responsible for managing their country's foreign
currency reserves and also its gold reserves.
Monetary Policy
• describe the roles and objectives of central banks
58/ Solution
A. Incorrect because it computes the wrong locations for the first and third quartiles. The location of the
first quartile (Q,) and the third quartile (Q₁) with a sample of size 7 should be calculated as:
(7+1)(25/100) = 2 and (7 + 1) (75/100)=6, respectively. However, if the "+1" is omitted, the locations will
be incorrectly assumed to be 7(25/100) = 1.75 and 7(75/100)=5.25. Since these locations are not whole
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
25
numbers, we must use linear interpolation. The difference between the Sharpe ratio of Portfolio 2 and
Portfolio 1 is 0.5-0.1=0.4, hence the interpolated value at position 1.75 is 0.2+ (0.75)(0.4) = 0.2+0.3 = 0.5.
Similarly, the interpolated value at position 5.25 would be 1.0+ (0.25)(1.4-1.0) = 1.0+0.1 = 1.1. Hence,
IQR= Q3-Q1 = 1.1-0.5=0.6.
B. Correct because quartiles divide the distribution into quarters and the interquartile range (IOR) is the
difference between the third quartile and the first quartile, IQR= Q3 - Q1. Moreover, the location of the
first quartile (Q1) and the third quartile (Q3) can be calculated as: (7+1)(25/100)= 2 and (7+1)(75/100)=6,
respectively. Since the portfolios are already in increasing order, the first quartile (Q.) is given by the
Sharpe ratio of Portfolio 2 and the third quartile (Q₂) by the Sharpe ratio of Portfolio 6. Hence, IQR = Q3-
Q1 = 1.4-0.6 =0.8.
C. Incorrect because it is the range, rather than the interquartile range, of the Sharpe ratios. The range is
the difference between the maximum and minimum values in a dataset. Hence, the range of the Sharpe
ratios is 1.6- 0.2 = 1.4.
Statistical Measures of Asset Returns
• calculate, interpret, and evaluate measures of central tendency and location to address an investment
problem
59/ Solution
A. Incorrect because this distractor incorrectly interprets the debt-to-equity ratio as 50% weight for debt
and 50% weight for equity. WACC # wdrd (1-t) + wprp+were= 0.5× 0.05×(1-0.30)+0.5× 0.08 = 5.75%.
B. Correct because WACC = wdrd (1-t) + wprp+were. Given that there is no preferred stock in the capital
structure, WACC= wdrd (1-1)+were Also, a simple way of transforming a debt-to-equity ratio D/E into a
weight that is, D/(D + E) is to divide D/E by 1 + D/E As a result, WACC = (D/E)/[1+ (D/E)]×rd×(1-t)+1/(1+
(D/E)xre] = 0.5/(1+0.5) x 0.05 x (1 - 0.30) + 1/(1+0.5) x 0.08 = 6.50%.
C. Incorrect because this distractor incorrectly omits the tax rate. WACC # (D/E)/[1 + (D/E)x rd]+1/(1+
(D/E)x re] = 0.5/(1+0.5) x 0.05 + 1/(1+0.5) x 0.08 = 7.00%.
60/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the corporate governance committee should be composed of independent (nonexecutive) members only.
B. Correct because under good corporate governance practices the compensation committee develops
remuneration policies for directors as well as key executives.
C. Incorrect because the audit committee is responsible for proposing the external auditor's
remuneration.
Corporate Governance: Conflicts, Mechanisms, Risks, and Benefits
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
26
• describe corporate governance and mechanisms to manage stakeholder relationships and mitigate
associated risks
61/ Solution
A. Correct because deferred tax assets arise when an excess amount is paid for income taxes (taxable
income higher than accounting profit) and the company expects to recover the difference during the
course of future operations.
B. Incorrect because it has the relationship reversed. Deferred tax assets arise when an excess amount is
paid for income taxes (taxable income higher than accounting profit) and the company expects to
recover the difference during the course of future operations.
C. Incorrect because it has the relationship reversed; when income taxes payable exceed income tax
expense, that creates a deferred tax asset. Deferred tax assets arise when an excess amount is paid for
income taxes (taxable income higher than accounting profit) and the company expects to recover the
difference during the course of future operations.
62/ Solution
A. Incorrect because the forward points are scaled down by 1,000 instead of 10,000: 4.6895+(-
12.7/1.000) = 4.6895 -0.0127 = 4.67680.
B. Correct because to convert any of these quoted forward points into a forward rate, one would divide
the number of points by 10,000 (to scale down to the fourth decimal place, the last decimal place in the
spot quote) and then add the result to the spot exchange rate quote 4.6895+(-12.7/10,000)=4.6895 -
0.00127 = 4.68823.
C. Incorrect because the forward points are subtracted from the spot rate: 4.6895 - (-12.7/10,000) =
4.6895 + 0.00127 = 4.69077.
Exchange Rate Calculations
• explain the arbitrage relationship between spot and forward exchange rates and interest rates,
calculate a forward rale using points or in percentage terms and interpret a forward discount or premium
63/ Solution
A. Correct because it is the future value of the ordinary annuity: FV = A [(1+r)N
-1]/r=$10,000[(1+0.05)10
-
1)/0.05 = $125,779. Calculator solution: [PMT] 10,000; [N] = 10; [I/Y] = 5; [CPT] [FV] = 125,779.
B. Incorrect because it is the future value of an annuity due (not an ordinary annuity): FV of annuity due
= (1+r) FV of ordinary annuity = (1+0.05) x $125,779 = $132,068. Compared to an ordinary annuity, the
payments in an annuity due are each discounted one less period. Therefore, we can modify [the formula
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
27
for the FV of an ordinary annuity] to handle annuities due by multiplying the right-hand side of the
equation by (1+r). Calculator solution: in
BGN mode; [PMT] = 10,000: [N] = 10; [I/Y] = 5; [CPT] [FV] 132,068.
C. Incorrect because it assumes the investment is an 11-year (instead of a 10-year) ordinary annuity, thus
calculating FV = $10,000[(1+0.05)11
-1]/0.05= $142,068. Calculator solution: [PMT] = 10,000; [N] = 11:
[I/Y] = 5; [CPT] [FV] = 142,068.
64/ Solution
A. Correct because the more debt the company uses, the greater the cost of equity, but the total value of
the company does not change and neither does the weighted average cost of capital.
B. Incorrect because the cost of equity increases. The more debt the company uses, the greater the cost
of equity, but the total value of the company does not change and neither does the weighted average
cost of capital.
C. Incorrect because the value of the company remains the same. The more debt the company uses, the
greater the cost of equity, but the total value of the company does not change and neither does the
weighted average cost of capital.
Capital Structure
• explain the Modigliani-Miller propositions regarding capital structure
65/ Solution
A. Incorrect because an export subsidy raises the price in the domestic market by the amount of the
subsidy (price before subsidy plus subsidy).
B. Incorrect because in an export subsidy, there will be an increase in domestic production.
C. Correct because as the price increases, domestic consumption will most likely decrease.
International Trade
• compare types of trade restrictions, such as tariffs, quotas, and export subsidies, and their economic
implications
66/ Solution
A. Correct because US GAAP requires that interest paid be classified as an operating cash flow; IFRS
allows interest paid to be classified as either an operating or financing activity.
B. Incorrect because US GAAP requires that interest paid be classified as an operating cash flow; IFRS
allows interest paid to be classified as either an operating or financing activity.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
28
C. Incorrect because US GAAP requires that interest paid be classified as an operating cash flow; IFRS
allows interest paid to be classified as either an operating or financing activity.
Analyzing Statements of Cash Flows I
• contrast cash flow statements prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and
US generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP)
67/ Solution
A. Incorrect because both ratios have improved from Year 1 to Year 2, thus the company is more solvent
in Year 2
B. Incorrect because it calculates interest coverage using net income instead of EBIT (1.875), and
interprets the change in debt to capital as a deterioration because the value has decreased.
C. Correct because both ratios have improved from Year 1 to Year 2, thus the company is more solvent in
Year 2.
 Year 1 Year 2 calculations Year 2
Debt to capital 12.7% 2,300/(2,300+ 17,000) = 11.9% 11.9%
Interest coverage 2.9 (375+200+125)/200 = 3.5 3.5
Financial Analysis Techniques
• calculate and interpret activity, liquidity, solvency, and profitability ratios
68/ Solution
A. Incorrect because increasing bank lines of credit is a primary source of liquidity.
B. Incorrect because increasing cash flow management efficiency is a primary source of liquidity.
C. Correct because renegotiating debt contracts is a secondary source of liquidity because it may affect
the company's operating and/or financial positions.
Working Capital and Liquidity
• explain liquidity and compare issuers' liquidity levels
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
29
69/ Solution
A. Correct. The mean absolute deviation (MAD) for a sample is calculated as follows: MAD = ∑ |𝑋𝑖−𝑋̅|
𝑛
𝑖=1
𝑛
where
Xi = the return of the fund during year i
𝑋̅ = the mean of the returns of the sample
n=the number of returns in the sample
i=the index for the year
In this problem:
Mean: X= (-20.60% +15.00% +0.50% 9.80% +4.60%)/5 = 1.86%
Deviations from Mean Absolute Deviation (%)
|−20.60% − 1.86% | 22.46
|115.00% − 1.86%| 13.14
|10.50% − 1.86%| 1.36
|19.80% − 1.86%| 7.94
I14.60% − 1.86%| 2.74
Total 47.64
MAD = 47.64/5 9.53
70/ Solution
A. Incorrect because this is the explanation for money-weighted return.
B. Correct because time-weighted rate of return reflects the compound rate of growth of one unit of
currency invested over a stated measurement period, and it removes the effects of timing and amount of
withdrawals and additions to the portfolio.
C. Incorrect because time-weighted rate of return can be the same, higher, or lower than moneyweighted rate of return
Rates and Returns
• compare the money-weighted and time-weighted rates of return and evaluate the performance of
portfolios based on these measures
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
30
71/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Basic EPS = Net income/Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding.
Year 1= €58,000/635,000 ~= 0.0913
Year 2= €57,500/650,000 ~= 0.0885
Accordingly, Basic EPS decreased from Year 1 to Year 2.
B. Correct because EBIT margin = EBIT / Total revenues.
Year 1 =€91,500/€720,000 ~= 12.71%
Year 2 =€93,500/€725,000 ~= 12.90%
Accordingly, EBIT margin increased from Year 1 to Year 2.
C. Incorrect because Net profit margin = Net income / Total revenues.
Year 1= €58,000/€720,000 ~= 8.06%
Year 2= €57,500/€725,000 ~= 7.93%
Accordingly, Net profit margin decreased from Year 1 to Year 2.
Financial Analysis Techniques
• calculate and interpret activity, liquidity, solvency, and profitability ratios
72/ Solution
A. Incorrect because in an environment of rising inventory unit costs and constant or increasing
inventory quantities, FIFO (in comparison with weighted average cost or LIFO) will allocate a lower
amount of the total cost of goods available for sale to cost of sales on the income statement and a higher
amount to ending inventory on the balance sheet
B. Incorrect because in an environment of rising inventory unit costs and constant or increasing
inventory quantities, FIFO (in comparison with weighted average cost or LIFO) will allocate a lower
amount of the total cost of goods available for sale to cost of sales on the income statement and a higher
amount to ending inventory on the balance sheet. Consequently, under LIFO the cost of sales is higher
than under FIFO, which leads to a lower, not higher, gross profit margin (Gross profit/Revenue) than
under FIFO.
C. Correct because in an environment of rising inventory unit costs and constant or increasing inventory
quantities, FIFO (in comparison with weighted average cost or LIFO) will allocate a lower amount of the
total cost of goods available for sale to cost of sales on the income statement and a higher amount to
ending inventory on the balance sheet. Consequently, under LIFO the cost of goods sold is higher and
inventory is lower, so inventory turnover (Cost of sales / Average inventory) is higher than under FIFO.
Analysis of Inventories
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
31
• calculate and explain how inflation and deflation of inventory costs affect the financial statements and
ratios of companies that use different inventory valuation methods
73/ Solution
A. Incorrect because if properly disclosed, an increase in EPS from the sale of a subsidiary does not
represent low quality financial reporting, but it may be low quality earnings.
B. Correct because high financial reporting quality provides useful information to decision makers. Since
foreign exchange gains and losses may not recur, they should be disclosed separately and not included in
cost of goods sold.
C. Incorrect because long-term leases for customized pieces of equipment should be reported as finance
leases and conforms to IFRS, therefore this is not low quality reporting.
Financial Reporting Quality
• compare financial reporting quality with the quality of reported results (including quality of earnings,
cash flow, and balance sheet items)
74/ Solution
A. Incorrect because FCFF = CFO + Int(1-Tax rate) - FCInv.
The answer choice $460 ignores the net-of-tax interest and is calculated as $500 - $40.
B. Incorrect because it calculates FCFE. The value of $470 million is calculated as $500-$40 + $10, which
represents free cash flow to equity. FCFE= CFO – FCInv + Net borrowing.
C. Correct because FCFF = CFO + Int(1-Tax rate) - FCInv. Free cash flow to the firm is calculated as $500 +
$20x(1-0.25) - $40=$500+$15-$40 = $475.
Analyzing Statements of Cash Flows II
• calculate and interpret free cash flow to the firm, free cash flow to equity, and performance and
coverage cash flow ratios
75/ Solution
A. Correct because if the two variables are normally distributed, we can test to determine whether the
null hypothesis (H0: p = 0) should be rejected. This test statistic is t-distributed with n-2 degrees of
freedom, where p represents the population correlation coefficient.
B. Incorrect because if the two variables are normally distributed, we can test to determine whether the
null hypothesis (Ho: p = 0) should be rejected. This test statistic is f-distributed with n-2 degrees of
freedom.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
32
C. Incorrect because if the two variables are normally distributed, we can test to determine whether the
null hypothesis (H0: p = 0) should be rejected. This test statistic is t-distributed with n-2 degrees of
freedom.
Parametric and Non-Parametric Tests of Independence
• explain parametric and nonparametric tests of the hypothesis that the population correlation
coefficient equals zero, and determine whether the hypothesis is rejected at a given level of significance
76/ Solution
A. Incorrect because it is the portfolio standard deviation calculated from an incorrect formula for
portfolio variance. where the "2" is omitted from the covariance term, i.e.
𝜎
2
(Rp) = w1
2𝜎
2
1+w2
2𝜎
2
2+w₁w2𝜎1,2
2 = (%) (100) + (0.5)2
(100)+(0.5)2
(100)+(0.5)(0.5)(50)=0.25(100+100+50)
250/4 = 62.5 [%]2
. which gives a portfolio standard deviation of 𝜎 (Rp) = Sqr(0.00625) = 0.07906 ~0.079 =
7.9%.
B. Correct because 𝜎² (Rp) = ∑ ∑ 𝑤𝑖𝑤𝑗
𝑛
𝑗=1
𝑛
𝑗=1 𝐶𝑜𝑣(𝑅𝑖
, 𝑅𝑗)
For two assets, n = 2, 𝜎² (Rp) = w1
2𝜎
2
1+w2
2𝜎
2
2+2w1w2𝜎
2
1,2
where, from given values, σ² = 𝜎² = 100%2
, 𝜎1,2
2= 50%.2
Since the portfolio is equally weighted, w = 1/n = ½
Hence, the portfolio variance𝜎 ²(Rp) = (0.5)
2
(100) + (0.5)
2 (100)+2(0.5)(0.5)(50) =1/4(100+100+100) =
300/4=75 [%2
], i.e. portfolio standard deviation, 𝜎 (Rp) = Sqr(0.0075) = 0.08660~0.087 = 8.7%.
C. Incorrect because it is the portfolio variance (Rp) = (0.5)
2
(100) + (0.5)(100)+2(0.5)(0.5)(50) = 75 [%2
],
incorrectly expressed in %, and not the portfolio standard deviation.
Portfolio Mathematics
• calculate and interpret the expected value, variance, standard deviation, covariances, and correlations
of portfolio returns𝜎
77/ Solution
A. Correct because cluster sampling requires the division or classification of the population into
subpopulation groups, called clusters. In this method, the population is divided into clusters, each of
which is essentially a mini- representation of the entire populations. Then certain clusters are chosen as
a whole using simple random sampling. If a subsample is randomly selected from each selected cluster,
then the plan is referred as two-stage cluster sampling. In this case, each city represents a cluster, from
which a sample of ten consumers is randomly selected, i.e. the researcher uses a two-stage cluster
sampling.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
33
B. Incorrect because with systematic sampling, we select every kth member until we have a sample of
the desired size. Systematic sampling does not involve the division or classification of the population into
subpopulation groups.
C. Incorrect because a major difference between cluster and stratified random samples is that in cluster
sampling, a whole cluster is regarded as a sampling unit and only sampled clusters are included. In
stratified random sampling, however, all the strata are included and only specific elements within each
stratum are then selected as sampling unit. Also, in stratified random sampling, the population is divided
into subpopulations (strata) based on one or more classification criteria. Simple random samples are
then drawn from each stratum in sizes proportional to the relative size of each stratum in the population.
This would have been a stratified random sampling if the researcher randomly selected consumers from
each city based on the size of each city relative to the whole population.
Estimation and Inference
• compare and contrast simple random, stratified random, cluster, convenience, and judgmental
sampling and their implications for sampling error in an investment problem
78/ Solution
A. Incorrect because higher quantities deliver marginal revenue above marginal cost
B. Correct because under perfect competition, economic profits are maximized when marginal revenue
equals short- run marginal cost-in this case, marginal cost crosses $10 per unit. Profits are maximized at
23 units of production because marginal cost is in excess of marginal revenue at 24 units.
C. Incorrect because at 24 units, marginal costs exceed marginal revenue.
The Firm and Market Structures determine and interpret breakeven and shutdown points of production,
as well as how economies and diseconomies of scale affect costs under perfect and imperfect
competition
79/ Solution
A. Correct because if the central bank wishes to increase the supply of money, it might buy bonds
(usually government bonds) from the banks, with an agreement to sell them back at some time in the
future. This transaction is known as a repurchase agreement.
B. Incorrect because through the setting of a policy rate, a central bank can manipulate the amount of
money in the money markets. Generally speaking, the higher the policy rate, the higher the potential
penalty that banks will have to pay to the central bank if they run short of liquidity, the greater their
willingness to reduce lending, and the more likely that broad money growth will shrink.
C. Incorrect because a central bank could restrict money creation by raising the reserve requirements of
banks.
Monetary Policy
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
34
• describe tools used to implement monetary policy tools and the monetary transmission mechanism,
and explain the relationships between monetary policy and economic growth, inflation, interest, and
exchange rates
80/ Solution
A. Incorrect because employees' service costs are reported as pension expense in profit and loss.
B. Correct because under IFRS, the change in the net pension asset or liability each period is viewed as
having three general components. Two of the components of this change are recognized as pension
expense in profit and loss: (1) employees' service costs and (2) the net interest expense or income
accrued on the beginning net pension asset or liability. The third item, remeasurements, is recognized in
other comprehensive income.
C. Incorrect because the net interest expense or income accrued on the beginning net pension plan asset
or liability is reported as pension expense in profit and loss.
Topics in Long-Term Liabilities and Equity
• explain the financial reporting of defined contribution, defined benefit, and stock-based compensation
plans
81/ Solution
A. Correct. When calculated for Year 2, interest coverage decreased and debt to total assets and return
on assets both increased. In general, a decrease in interest coverage and an increase in debt to total
assets would reduce creditworthiness, but an increase in return on assets would improve
creditworthiness. Calculations are as follows:
 Calculation Year2 Comment
Debt to total assets Total debt/Total assets = 19,8% Higher than year 1 (18.2%),
 €1,048/€5,305 =19.8% which would reduce creditworthiness

Interest coverage EBIT/Interest payments 13,8x Lower than Year 1(15.3x),
 = €1,015/€73.4 which would reduce creditworthiness
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
35
Operating ROA EBIT/Average total assets = 18,7% Higher than year 1 (17.3%),
 €1,015/€5,421 = which would improve creditworthiness

B. Incorrect because a decrease in the interest coverage ratio would likely reduce creditworthiness.
C. Incorrect because an increase in debt-to-total assets would likely reduce creditworthiness.
Financial Analysis Techniques
• calculate and interpret activity, liquidity, solvency, and profitability ratios
82/ Solution
A. Correct because energy efficiency is best described as an environmental factor. Environmental factors
that are generally considered material in investment analysis include natural resource management,
pollution prevention, water conservation, energy efficiency and reduced emissions, the existence of
carbon assets, and adherence to environmental safety and regulatory standards.
B. Incorrect because energy efficiency is best described as an environmental factor, not a social factor.
C. Incorrect because energy efficiency is best described as an environmental factor, not a governance
factor.
Investors and Other Stakeholders
• describe environmental, social, and governance factors of corporate issuers considered by investors
83/ Solution
A. Correct because the target D/E ratio is used to determine WACC. The target capital structure is the
company's chosen proportions of debt and equity as opposed to the actual weightings. If we know the
company's target capital structure, then of course we should use this in our analysis..
Weight of debt, wd = (D/E)/(1+(D/E)) = 0.8/(1+0.8) = 0.4444
Weight of equity, we= 1-w=0.5556
WACC= wdrd (1-t)+wprp+were=(0.4444) (4%)(1-30%)+0+(0.5556)(9%) = 6.2444% ~6.24%
where
wd = the target proportion of debt in the capital structure when the company raises new funds
rd =the before-tax marginal cost of debt
t = the company's marginal tax rate
wp =the target proportion of preferred stock in the capital structure when the company raises new funds
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
36
rp = the marginal cost of preferred stock
wp =the target proportion of common stock in the capital structure when the company raises new funds
re =the marginal cost of common stock
B. Incorrect because the current capital structure (determined by using the current D/E ratio) was used
instead of the target capital structure. The target capital structure is the company's chosen proportions
of debt and equity as opposed to the actual weightings. If we know the company's target capital
structure, then of course we should use this in our analysis.
Weight of equity, w≠ (D/E)/(1+(D/E)) = 0.65/(1+0.65) = 0.3939
84/ Solution
A. Correct because in the event that the value of inventory declines below the carrying amount on the
balance sheet, the inventory carrying amount must be written down to its net realizable value and the
loss (reduction in value) recognized as an expense on the income statement.
B. Incorrect because in the event that the value of inventory declines below the carrying amount on the
balance sheet, the inventory carrying amount must be written down to its net realizable value and the
loss (reduction in value) recognized as an expense on the income statement. Also, the revaluation
surplus account is used under the revaluation model for long-lived assets (and not inventory). Thus, IFRS
allow companies to value long-lived assets either under a cost model at historical cost minus
accumulated depreciation or amortization or under a revaluation model at fair value if a revaluation
initially increases the carrying amount of the asset class, the increase in the carrying amount of the asset
class bypasses the income statement and goes directly to equity under the heading of revaluation
surplus. Any subsequent decrease in the asset's value first decreases the revaluation surplus and then
goes to income.
C. Incorrect because in the event that the value of inventory declines below the carrying amount on the
balance sheet. The inventory carrying amount must be written down to its net realizable value and the
loss (reduction in value) recognized as an expense on the income statement. Also, in case an inventory
valuation allowance is used, its balance should increase (and not decrease) because frequently, rather
than writing inventory down directly, an inventory valuation allowance account is used. The allowance
account is netted with the inventory accounts to arrive at the carrying amount that appears on the
balance sheet.
Analysis of Inventories
• describe the measurement of inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value and its
implications for financial statements and ratios
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
37
85/ Solution
A. Correct because the World Bank helps to create the basic economic infrastructure that is essential for
the creation of domestic financial markets and a well-functioning financial industry in developing
countries.
B. Incorrect because the WTO's (World Trade Organization's) most important functions are the
implementation, administration, and operation of individual agreements; acting as a platform for
negotiations; and settling disputes. The WTO's primary focus is the promotion of international free trade,
not creating basic economic infrastructure.
C. Incorrect because the focus of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is more short term, such as
supporting exchange-rate flexibility and lending money on a temporary basis. Basic economic
infrastructure issues are not the IMF's focus.
Introduction to Geopolitics
• describe functions and objectives of the international organizations that facilitate trade, including the
World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization
86/ Solution
A. Incorrect because, if the null hypothesis is rejected, the evidence is statistically significant.
B. Incorrect because when we want to conduct tests on two means based on samples that we believe
are dependent. we use the test of the mean of the differences (a paired comparisons test). Therefore, it
is not used to test whether samples are dependent or independent.
C. Correct because, according to the test statistic, 𝑡 =
𝑑̅−𝑢0
𝑠𝑑̅
the lower the standard error in the
denominator, the higher the value of the f-statistic. The t-statistic calculation includes the sample mean
difference in the numerator. Therefore, a lower standard error (denominator) relative to the sample
mean difference (numerator) results in a higher f-statistic value.
Hypothesis Testing
• construct hypothesis tests and determine their statistical significance, the associated Type I and Type II
errors, and power of the test given a significance level
87/ Solution
A. Incorrect because just like the concentration ratio, the HHI does not take the possibility of entry into
account.
B. Incorrect because just like the concentration ratio, the HHI does not take the possibility of entry into
account.
CFA Program Level I for February 2024
38
C. Correct because just like the concentration ratio, the HHI does not take the possibility of entry into
account.
The Firm and Market Structures
• identify the type of market structure within which a firm operates and describe the use and limitations
of concentration measures
88/ Solution
A. Incorrect, because the purchase of equipment is a cash flow from investing activities, not an operating
cash flow. Investing activities include purchasing and selling long-term assets and other investments.
These long-term assets and other investments include property, plant, and equipment.
B. Correct, because a decrease in current operating liabilities (e.g., accounts payable and accrued
expense liabilities) is a subtraction from net income using the indirect method.
C. Incorrect, because amortization expense of intangible assets is an addition to net income using the
indirect method.
Analyzing Statements of Cash Flows I
• describe the steps in the preparation of direct and indirect cash flow statements, including how cash
flows can be computed using income statement and balance sheet data
89/ Solution
A. Incorrect because Bayes' formula is misapplied as Probability of X given the new information =
Probability of the new information given X/ Prior probability of X x Unconditional probability of
the new information, 0.5/0.7 × 0.6 = 0.4286~0.43.
B. Correct because applying Bayes' formula, Probability of X given the new information Probability of the
new information given X/ Unconditional probability of the new information Prior probability of X, results
in 0.5/0.6 x 0.7 = 0.5833~0.58.
C. Incorrect because Bayes' formula is misapplied as Probability of X given the new information =
Unconditional probability of the new information/Probability of the new information given X Prior
probability of X, 0.6/0.5× 0.7 =0.84.
90/ Solution
B. Correct because by allowing shareholders to express their views on remuneration matters, companies
can limit the discretion of directors and managers in granting themselves excessive (or inadequate)
remuneration, thus not allowing managers to have greater discretion over their own pay. Hence, if
shareholders do not or miss to influence the design of executive compensation packages, conflicts of
interest between shareholders and management may occur.